[Music]
okay how do you imagine the end of all
thanks I mean the literal end of the
world it might not be the brightest of
topics but admit it you've thought about
it in your spare time me well the good
news is about the end of the world for
me would be I could quit going to the
dentist I would eat all the chocolate I
like and I'd throw away my cable bill
really it's not gonna happen very soon
it's just one of those things that
randomly pop into your mind and the
minds of other folks - scientists have
theorized that all life on Earth is
going to be wiped out by the Sun but
hold on what do we know about this side
well it's basically a huge generator it
gives us light warmth and even an
endless supply of safe energy which were
currently mastering now without the Sun
there wouldn't be any life on Earth at
all and with all these perks it's not
hard to forget that it's a giant ball of
fire that could easily burn us all down
in a matter of seconds well for some
reason though it still hasn't done so so
how come you see as stars go our Sun is
quite young it's only 4.6 billion years
old and it's now in the phase when it's
most stable like a person in their 30s
or 40s anyway there is an area around
the Sun called a habitable zone it's the
distance at which water on the planets
around the star can still be liquid and
with that life can exist there our
planet obviously is inside this
habitable zone of the Sun while Venus
for example is not
nananananana the heat of the star is
just right for the Seas and oceans to
remain in the form of water not vapour
or ice but like any other star the Sun
is constantly changing the energy gives
off results from burning and very hotly
at that it's only warm and cozy from a
distance but once you get too close well
and gentlemen let's get ready to roll
and on top of that the reactions of
burning hydrogen and that's what happens
with any star are different from burning
say wood or charcoal a star has an
extremely hot core surrounded by layers
upon layers of gas and dust which burn
and do all the shining but what happens
to stuff when it burns right you are it
gets destroyed and so do these layers
around the Sun as they deplete they
expand too and the star grows bigger
with every passing minute it does so in
a very slow manner though that's why we
can't see it but we can definitely feel
the consequences of this expansion the
Sun has an incredibly big influence on
everything on earth and it isn't limited
to just light and warmth the energy the
Sun gives to our planet heats the
surface and the atmosphere alike and it
drives the weather across the globe as
weird as it sounds there would simply be
no rain without the Sun just think about
it rain comes down from the clouds which
are basically massive puddles of water
floating high up in the sky but how does
all this water end up there well it
evaporates from the surface of the
planet to do that it needs to heat up
and that's where the Sun comes into play
its warmth makes water vapor rise from
seas and oceans and form clouds in the
atmosphere so no Sun means no clouds but
that isn't all there is
[Music]
as the Sun heats the surface of the
earth it starts all sorts of processes
on and beneath it it may sound crazy but
even volcano eruptions and earthquakes
are the result of the sun's activity or
at least in part on top of that the
sun's radiation powers the winds in the
atmosphere the currents in the oceans
and creates a steady temperature across
the planet depending on the angle of the
Sun to earth of course now that you know
how enormous the influence of the Sun is
imagine what would happen to our planet
if it expanded by several percent first
the borders of the habitable zone would
shift even a 5% increase in the size of
our star would make our planet much
different from what we have now its
surface would get hotter water would
evaporate in more copious amounts and
the climate would change drastically
there's no telling how exactly different
the earth would look but it would not be
the planet we know still it would at
least survive and we might still be
around to see those changes well maybe
not me what we wouldn't be able to
witness is a ten percent expansion of
the Sun as you might have guessed the
habitable zone would move again
and this time the earth would be
expelled from it or it's better to say
life would get to the point of no return
too close to the sign when our star gets
1.1 times bigger as he would become too
much for water to stay liquid so the
oceans would evaporate and the surface
would become so hot that no living thing
would be able to take it the air would
also become too hot to breathe our
planet would virtually turn into a
scorched piece of space rock man where
have I seen that movie well the good
news is that for some period of time
Mars would then enter the habitable zone
instead so if people eventually find a
way to colonize the red planet they will
be able to escape the sad fate of its
homeworld the rising temperatures would
shift the gears in Mars as enter
mechanisms possibly even turning it into
earth too it would have a different time
pad
and would most certainly need some
adjustments for humans to live safely on
its surface but Mars could become our
new home and hey having two moons
instead of one it's awesome yet it still
wouldn't be a permanent solution like I
said before the more hydrogen the Sun
burns the bigger it becomes after some
more time it would consume Mars too and
that would probably be the end of its
growth the Sun would finally become a
red giant before shrinking down to a
white dwarf it's a process that occurs
when a star is running out of fuel its
core gets stripped from the gas and dust
that surrounded it previously and all
this stuff flies free into space then at
the end of its life the core begins to
shine brighter than ever with a cloud of
particles that just released Catching
Fire to this last phase is called a
planetary nebula and it's so bright that
it can be seen from millions of
light-years away and when the core stops
shining the Sun will at last be no more
okay so that explains how the Sun will
wipe out our planet but what about when
it'll happen well it seems we don't have
to worry that much about it yet you
might remember what I said a bit earlier
our Sun is about 4.6 billion years old
now and from what astronomers can
predict it will take another 10 billion
years to become a planetary nebula as
for the 10% growth which will bring the
end to all life on Earth scientists
currently think it will take place in
about 1 billion years from now a much
shorter time span for sure but no less
far away I don't plan on being around
for that given today's technical
progress
I'll bet humanity will find a way to
colonize other planets way before it's
too late and still there's something
that bothers some researchers in the
sun's behavior right now there are
flashes on its surface that release
powerful radiation into space and
towards the earth so far our atmosphere
along with rain clouds has protected us
from this radiation but if for some
reason our planet is stripped of these
protective layers gamma
race straight from the Sun will scorch
the earth now I'm not saying greenhouse
effect is good mind you I'm just
reminding you that everything in the
world and the universe happens for a
scientific reason if a particular
powerful beam of radiation reaches the
earth gases in the atmosphere just might
disperse it enough to make it harmless
on the other hand as the growth of
greenhouse gases produced by humans
continues we are facing a global change
of climate a much more present threat
although deserts might bloom and the
permafrost of the Arctic and the
Antarctic might even turn into a lush
jungle for us humans such a change could
mean a complete restructuring of the
world also climate change won't come
peacefully it'll trigger lots and lots
of natural disasters such as hurricanes
rising sea levels volcanic eruptions
earthquakes wildfires and tsunamis we
are already seeing these effects by the
way because records show hurricanes have
become more frequent since the beginning
of the 20th century the water in the
oceans gets warmer because of human
activity and that's how we cause
hurricanes ourselves
so what about you what do you think is
the most likely scenario for our planet
in the years to come let me know your
views down in the comments hey if you
learned something new today then give
this video a like and share it with a
friend
but hey don't go terraforming Mars just
yet we have over 2000 cool videos for
you to check out just click on this left
or right video and enjoy stay on the
bright side of life
[Music]